


--- links ---

https://github.com/scala






--- answer this ---

	what kind of queries are you trying to run ?????

CNV

eQTL

GWAS

Joint Variant Calling

PheWAS

Variant calling

RNA-seq quantification

Other








--- benefits ---

What is Apache Spark - Benefits of Apache Spark
Speed
Engineered from the bottom-up for performance, Spark can be 100x faster than Hadoop for large scale data processing by exploiting in memory computing and other optimizations. Spark is also fast when data is stored on disk, and currently holds the world record for large-scale on-disk sorting.



Ease of Use
Spark has easy-to-use APIs for operating on large datasets. This includes a collection of over 100 operators for transforming data and familiar data frame APIs for manipulating semi-structured data.




A Unified Engine
Spark comes packaged with higher-level libraries, including support for SQL queries, streaming data, machine learning and graph processing. These standard libraries increase developer productivity and can be seamlessly combined to create complex workflows.







--- comparing databricks and spark ---

https://databricks.com/spark/comparing-databricks-to-apache-spark















https://databricks.com/


Unified Analytics Platform for Genomics
https://databricks.com/product/genomics



Easily prep genomic data with prebuilt GATK pipelines hosted in the cloud on AWS and Azure
Process data 15x faster with workflows optimized to run in parallel
Easily launch and scale pipelines with a few clicks




benefits:

Run your alignment and variant calls in less than an hour and a half

60-100X faster
Tertiary analytics 60-100x faster on Databricks compared to open source Apache SparkTM



The Genomic Data Explosion
The first human genome took 13 years and over $2.5 billion to sequence. Today, a human genome can be sequenced in a couple days for less than the price of the latest iPhone. As a result, pharmaceutical and healthcare organizations are profiling the genomes of millions of patients, generating thousands of petabytes of data. To put this in perspective, genomic sequencing is expected to generate up to 40 exabytes of data per year by 2025. This will dwarf the amount of data generated by Youtube and Twitter combined.

